Good morning.
Good morning and welcome to session 520.
If you're interested in cameras
or capture or new stuff,
you've come to the right place.
And looks like we've got
a really good crowd here.
Thank you all for coming and
thank you for all of your apps
and all the work that you do.
You're making our platforms a very
vibrant place to be right now.
We're going to cover a lot today,
so if I sound like an auctioneer,
it's not because I'm nervous,
it's just because we've
got a lot to go through.
What you're going to learn today
is five main topics to cover.
Performance improvements
in Mac OS X 10.8.
A bit about the camera
ecosystem as a whole.
New AV Foundation capture
features in iOS 6.
That's the bulk of it.
And then we have a section
on solutions for performance
problems in your capture apps.
And finally, a kind of a neat demo at the
end where we'll talk about
synchronizing motion data with video.
What you will not learn, however,
is AV Foundation and Core Media Basics.
I've given this talk two or
three years in a row now.
I think you've seen the
block diagrams enough,
you've seen the class hierarchies,
that we're not going to do that again.
But you do have all of the videos
available to you on developer.apple.com,
and we encourage you to go
back there and view those as
prerequisites to this session.
We have five pieces of sample
code for today's session.
I just looked before the session,
and most of them are up there.
I anticipate that the rest will be up
later today or tomorrow at the latest.
And there are the URLs.
[Transcript missing]
Also, there is an optimization in
there for writing movies,
which is we detect duplicate frames.
If there's been no movement in the frame,
we won't give you those duplicate frames.
But for screen-grabbing apps
that are doing effects or such,
you want all of the frames.
You want a constant frame rate.
So you can opt out of
that behavior in 10.8,
the duplicate frame removal.
See the updated AVScreenShack
sample code for examples on how
to use all of these new APIs.
Next up,
is support for hardware-accelerated
H.264 encoding.
2011 and newer Macs that have
the Sandy Bridge or the latest
MacBook Pro that has the
Ivy Bridge chipset all have special
hardware for doing H.264 encode.
Up to 1920 by 1080.
So if you have something
larger than that,
it will fall back to software,
and that happens transparently.
It just--if you can get the hardware,
you'll get it.
If not, you'll get the software.
This is both movie file output and asset
writer in real-time mode are eligible
for getting real-time H.264 encoding,
and no code change is required.
Everybody just gets it automatically.
The difference is you'll see
dramatically decreased CPU usage and
a lot more time for doing processing
or other things in your app.
Next up,
support for just-in-time compression.
So we know that there's a
mix of consumer-based and
pro apps on the desktop,
and we have a feature in
AV Foundation on the desktop
that's kind of just for pro apps,
which is that you can do
frame-accurate starting and stopping.
This helps if you want to, say,
switch between one recorded movie
to another recorded movie on the
fly without dropping any frames.
That's a neat feature,
but it does come at a price,
because in order to do that,
to guarantee that we can switch on any
frame boundary to a new movie file,
we have to compress all
the time in the background,
even when you're just previewing.
So that comes with a big power
cost to doing that all the time.
In Mac OS X 10.8, you must opt in for the
frame-accurate start behavior.
We think that most clients
would rather have the power win
and not a frame-accurate start.
So if you implement a delegate
to the AVCapture file output,
you can just do that.
You can choose whether you want
frame-accurate start or not.
If you want frame-accurate start,
then in capture output should provide
sample-accurate recording start,
you'll answer yes,
and it will compress all the time,
and you'll still burn a lot of power,
but you will have the
feature that you depend upon.
This feature is great for lowering
power consumption when previewing.
And please see the updated
AV Recorder sample code for
an example of how to do this.
This is up there right now.
Okay, lastly, with 10.8,
we have the newly published
CoreMediaIO DAO SDK.
A lot of times on the developer forums,
we're asked,
"How do I write a video device driver?
Is there a replacement
for sequence grabber?
What do I use?" And last year,
we made the CoreMediaIO framework
available with support for writing
DAO or device abstraction layer drivers.
That's if you want to write a native
64-bit device driver for a video card or,
you know, a little gadget on OS X.
But we didn't make it very easy for
you because we didn't release an SDK.
This year,
we've just released to the public,
not just WWC, but to everyone,
a sample SDK that
includes a sample device,
both an assistant and a plug-in,
so it shows how to make it a
shareable device across processes.
And if you're interested in doing this,
please come and see us in the labs and
talk to us about how to use this SDK.
That's the URL right there.
All right,
let's move on to the camera ecosystem.
I know you're all eager
to get into the APIs.
I am, too.
As developers,
we tend to kind of obsess over the
minute details of these APIs and
how we can use them for our
nefarious purposes in our apps.
But I'd like to start by
taking a step back and just
looking at the bigger picture,
because your capture apps,
especially on iOS,
are part of a bigger ecosystem.
There are a lot of concerns
that you need to be aware of,
chief among them being privacy
and sensitivity of data.
So I wanted to just talk about the
bigger picture before we dive deep.
Apple's Camera app saves photos
and videos to a central library.
You know, before iOS 4 and before we gave
you access to this library,
this was the place where only the
Camera app could write photos to.
It's called the Assets Library,
and as of iOS 4, you have read/write
access to it in your apps.
That means that you get access to
the photos that people have taken
on the device in their camera roll.
You have access to synced
assets that came in from iTunes.
You have access to saved assets
that they took from your app
or mail or some other source.
And now we have photo streams as well.
All of this data is there for
your reading and for writing.
But all of this data is
sensitive and personal,
and it's a big deal,
just as location of the device
is a big deal to people.
They want to have confidence
that their photos are not being
used behind their backs or for
purposes that they're not aware of.
So as of iOS 6,
devices now prompt the user to
grant access to the library.
So when you take a picture
the first time in your app,
I think it's a good thing, too.
The first time your app tries
to write to the assets library,
the user will be told about it
and will grant access or not.
What that means is your app may now
fail in places where it didn't before.
Don't just assume that you have
automatic access to the assets library,
so please handle errors.
Great.
Now we're on to the good stuff.
AV Foundation capture features in iOS 6.
We've got three main areas
of feature improvements that
we'd like to talk about today.
The first is video stabilization.
We'll talk about real-time face
detection and AVCapture video
preview layer enhancements.
Stabilization first.
What is video stabilization?
As the name implies,
it steadies shaky shots.
And with help from the
gyro and core motion,
we're able to take what would
previously be unusable footage and
make it into something that's a good,
lasting memory that
someone can actually use.
Besides steadying for shake in the hand,
it's also compensating for
rolling shutter artifacts.
If you're not familiar
with what those are,
rolling shutter is local motion that
happens in a frame between the time
it started being captured and to
the end time when it was captured.
It can manifest itself as
a little ripple or a wave.
Here we see a picture of me
riding my bike down a hill.
And as you'll see here,
I witnessed a phenomenon.
It was a spontaneous change
in the curvature of the
earth right before my eyes.
But luckily,
my phone was there to capture it.
This can be really disconcerting
to users because it sort of,
you know,
gives a seasick or earthquake effect,
and it can really ruin
otherwise good video.
The most dramatic way to show the
effects of video stabilization
is to show you a before/after.
And here we have on the left the before.
This is shot by a member from our team
in a small boat traveling in the Alameda.
And it's great because we get
to see this bridge closing,
the big green bridge.
And what you see on the left is
obviously shaking around a lot.
He's doing his best to hold
the phone absolutely still.
But, you know,
the motor is going and there are waves.
So things up close look okay,
but the farther away we get,
and particularly when you see
all of these straight lines,
it's really obvious when there's shake.
And what we have on the left is
probably not a piece of footage
that I would choose to keep
because it makes me sick to watch.
But if you look on the right side,
take a look at this.
This is really dramatic.
The left side is just kind
of juddering all around,
but the right side is
absolutely rock solid.
It looks almost as if he had a Steadicam
there on the boat and he was just,
you know,
gently panning from side to side.
So applaud for that.
That's a technical marvel.
So video stabilization, why use it?
Well, I think the pros are obvious.
Camera phones in general
are susceptible to shake,
partly because of how people hold them.
You know, they're very light.
They're held with one hand.
It's hard to hold your
arm exactly straight.
So there's going to be some
shake when people take videos.
Also because the bigger we go,
and remember, our images are getting
bigger and bigger and bigger.
The original iPhone that did
video only shot at 640 by 480.
Now we're up to 1080p.
And the HD resolution recordings are
especially susceptible to rolling
shutter because they have more pixels.
There's more time for that
local motion to happen in
the frame and wreck the shot.
Stabilization saves
otherwise unusable footage,
which is great, because it means you've
saved a memory for someone.
and the kicker is it works in real time.
You don't have to import
it into iMovie afterwards,
let it analyze the data,
crop out some area so that you've
lost some of your field of view.
It just works in real
time and when it's done,
you have a 1920 by 1080 movie
that's already stabilized and
this is a wonderful thing.
Why not use stabilization?
Well, I think most people will
want to use stabilization,
but if you have some pixel
processing algorithms in place that
might not interact well with it,
you should be aware of what it's doing.
Stabilization does alter the pixels
because it's correcting for shake.
It does have to move them around.
So that means your output that you
see in the movie is no longer matching
what you see in the video preview.
If it's important for you to have
a one-to-one correspondence between
what's coming out the video data output
and what's being shown in the preview,
stabilization will no
longer make that true.
And it may not interoperate
well with whatever pixel
processing algorithms you have,
in which case you would
want to turn it off.
Also, you should be aware that
it does add latency,
one or more frames to
the video data output.
So expect just a little bit more
lag when stabilization is turned on.
Where is it supported?
It's supported on iPhone
4S and the new iPad.
Compatibility.
As I stated before,
all the HD resolutions
are now compatible.
In iOS 5, we only did 1080p.
Now we've extended that support
to all the HD resolutions,
720p and 540p as well.
Where does it not work?
Well, it does not work with front camera.
We do not stabilize video from the
front camera because there it's SD only,
and typically the subject
in the picture is just,
you know,
maybe a meter away from the screen,
so stabilization is not a big win there.
It does not work with
AVCapture still image output.
Still images are not stabilized.
And it also does not work with preview,
as I stated before.
Usually when you stabilize preview,
people have this weird feedback
effect of trying to correct for
what's already been corrected,
and then they can't really
follow themselves well.
It's better to keep the preview
uncorrected for stabilization.
Now, in iOS 5,
we did give some limited support to
developers for using stabilization,
but largely it happened
behind your backs.
Movie file output always
stabilizes 1080p video,
period, on iOS 5.
Nothing you can do about it.
It never stabilizes any other resolution.
And video data output also never
stabilizes any session preset.
And there was no API to opt in or out.
So 1080p, you're getting it if
you're recording to movies,
nowhere else.
But in iOS 6,
we're keeping the behavior the same
if your app is linked before iOS 6.
But then once you
recompile against iOS 6,
you must opt in for
stabilization where you want it.
Both movie file output and
video data output are eligible,
so you can use it with either one.
And here's how you opt in.
There's a little bit of boilerplate code.
You're probably familiar with--you know,
you create a capture session,
you create a device input
for the back camera.
You make either a movie file
output or a video data output.
You get a reference to its
connection by getting the
connection with media type video.
And then you opt in for
it when it's available.
So if video stabilization is
supported on that particular
platform for that particular camera,
you say, "Set enables video stabilization
when available to Yes." Now,
as I stated earlier,
it's not--not all session
presets are stabilized.
The SD ones are not.
The photo preset is not.
How will you know when it kicks in?
You can observe,
using key-value observation,
the connection's video
stabilization enabled property.
It will flip to Yes when
stabilization goes on,
and it will flip to off
when it's no longer in use.
There are a couple of gotchas that
you should know about with video
stabilization and in general with
setting properties on connections
that I wanted to call out.
When inputs or outputs are
added to a capture session,
connections-- these are a
different kind of object,
an AVCapture connection-- they
are implicitly formed between
compatible inputs and outputs.
This is what it looks like.
Let's say you have a
session and an output.
Let's say a movie file output.
And then you add an AVCapture
device input to your session.
What you don't see is
that behind the scenes,
the session asks the device input,
"What kind of media can you
produce?" And it asks the outputs,
accept?" And it finds the matches,
and it forms a connection between them.
In this case,
that device input produces video,
and the movie file output accepts video,
so it implicitly forms an
AVCapture connection for video,
and it's there.
Now, the reverse is also true.
If you switch cameras,
so you need to remove an input
and then add a new input,
what happens is as soon as you
remove that AVCapture device
input for the back camera,
it also implicitly severs the connection
to the existing AVCapture connection
and both disappear at the same time.
So what that means is any settings
that you have-- that you've applied
to that connection are now lost.
So you need to add the new input
and reapply the same settings that
you did to the new connection.
And I highly recommend using
AVCapturEssion's begin configuration
and commit configuration when
you are doing these high-level,
big graph changes,
because what it does is it holds off the
commit of any of these property changes
until you say commit configuration,
and it prevents multiple stops
and restarts of the graph.
You can see the updated AVCam sample
code for an example of how to
opt in for video stabilization,
and that, too, is already up there.
All right,
on to real-time face detection.
This is neat.
Face detection,
this is the same face detector
that's used in the camera app,
and it's different than the
one we showed you last year,
which was CI Face Detector.
Look at those cute kids.
Scans for faces in real time,
and it can track up to
10 faces in real time.
So the contrast isn't great up here.
I hope you can see all of the
rectangles around their faces.
It assigns a unique ID to
each face in the frame.
And the detector sees the camera in
the native orientation of the camera.
That is,
if you take out your iPhone right
now and you turn it sideways and
put the home button on the right,
that's the orientation in
which the camera is mounted.
So in this picture, for instance,
even though we're holding it portrait,
it found the girl on the right first
because she's closest to the top left
if you rotate by 90 degrees to the left.
It provides a timestamp for each face.
The timestamp will be the same.
It correlates to the frame
in which that face was found.
And that's good when you want
to match it up with video later.
We'll talk about that later.
It also finds the rectangle
bounding each face.
And these rectangles are given in
the coordinate space of the device.
That is, they're scalar coordinates
from zero to one.
Again, in the un-rotated space.
It can also determine the roll angle.
So you see the tall boy right
there has his face turned slightly.
[Transcript missing]
It can determine roll angles in
increments of 30 degrees either way.
It can detect faces all the way from
straight up to all the way upside down.
So great for finding kids on monkey bars.
It also determines the yaw angle.
Yaw is also known as turn.
Before we were doing tilt,
now we're doing turn.
So here we see that the tall
boy has turned his face,
and so it's going to detect
that he has a yaw angle of 315,
or minus 45 degrees from
center from the perspective of
the person turning the face.
It always uses positive angles,
so you'll always see
something between 0 and 360.
Also notice that it no longer
finds the girl on the right.
That's because she's
turned her head too far.
It can only find faces that are between
0 and 90 this way and 0 and 90 this way.
So between 91 degrees and 269 degrees,
it won't find a face anymore.
And good news,
it works with front and back camera,
all presets.
It's resolution independent,
and it happens quickly regardless of
which capture preset you might be using.
What does it not do?
Sorry aliens, sorry pets,
it will not find you.
Unless you're an alien that
looks a lot like a human.
It also does not recognize
particular faces.
That's a distinction to make.
It's a face detector.
It's not a face recognizer.
So while it might find two faces
here and assign an ID to them,
it's not going to know that that's
Princess Clara and Sad Captain America.
No.
It also does not remember faces.
That means that once it's
assigned an ID to a face,
if that face turns too
far and it loses it,
or if the face goes out of
the frame and comes back in,
it's a new face to the detector.
It assigns it a new
ID that's incremented higher.
It also does not
currently determine pitch,
so the nose up or nose down,
it can't tell the difference.
It's either a face that's there or not.
We'll tell you yawn, roll, but not pitch.
It also does not find, as I said before,
faces with a yaw angle
between 91 and 269.
It has to be able to see some of
the defining features of the face
to determine that it is a face.
So why might you want to use
AV Foundation's real-time face
detector as opposed to the CI face
detector that we showed you last year?
Well, first and foremost,
it's optimized for real-time capture.
It's the same one that's
used by the camera app.
It's hardware accelerated.
So it uses very little CPU.
It's capture resolution independent,
meaning it doesn't matter if you're in
a photo preset with very large images,
it will still find
faces at the same speed.
It also supports
tracking faces over time.
The CI Face Detector
interface is a push one,
meaning every time you feed it a frame,
it searches through the
frame to find faces.
Here, once we've found a face,
we can lock onto them and we don't
need to search the whole frame again
and again to find that same face.
So once it's found a face,
the tracking is very fast,
and the latency is very low.
But that doesn't mean that Core Image's
CI face detector is no longer relevant.
To the contrary,
it's still very relevant.
Why?
Well, it's available on all
supported iOS devices in iOS 6.
The same is not true for
the real-time face detector.
And also because of its push interface,
that means you can use
arbitrary source images.
They don't have to come from the camera.
You could pull an image from the assets
library and find faces in that one,
and it will tell you about them.
The AV Foundation real-time face
detector only works with content
coming from the camera in real time.
All right, so enough talk.
Let's have a demo.
I'd like to call up Ethan Tiratompson
to give us a demo of StashCam 2.
Hi, everyone.
I've been working with Brad to
update StashCam for these new APIs.
But I'd like to start with reviewing
the core image face detection,
which you see running here,
because as Brad pointed out,
that this is still pertinent
for a variety of situations,
such as if your images are not
coming from a capture source or if
you aren't running on a device with
the necessary hardware support.
But now if I switch to running
AV Foundation's face detection,
we see that it gets similar results.
With a much higher frame rate.
Yes.
If you look at the top,
the frame rate's running there.
So you see it's getting the
full 30 frames a second.
And it hasn't dropped the
core image frame rate at all.
So it's able to do that without
stealing any CPU from whatever
else you've got running.
So now if I put on my Stash,
and I'm going to run it,
you can see some of the new fun features
that we've been -- that this supports.
So we've got the rolls and the yaws.
And to show you the ID tracking,
I can tap on my face and
I can get to a pirate.
Arr!
I think Brad looks particularly
good in a clown outfit.
Scary face.
Yeah, very scary.
Scary clown.
And we also in this have a still capture.
So this is operating on
the video preview layer.
I can tap the button at the bottom and
save my StashCam memories for later.
And there's all the API in
there for using that.
So that is StashCam.
Great.
Thank you, Ethan.
StashCam 2 ships with built-in
support for mustaches,
clowns, and pirates,
and we're going to make aliens and pet
overlays available as an in-app purchase.
All right,
so let's talk about how we did that.
First, he showed you there was still that
legacy CIA face detector path that
was in the first revision of StashCam,
and this is how you do it.
It's got a device input
at the top and a session,
and at the bottom,
it has a video data output,
a still image output,
and a preview layer.
As it gets frames in real time
through the video data output,
it pushes them in one at a
time to the CI face detector,
which scans the frames, finds the faces,
returns a result,
and then he uses those results to overlay
the red rectangles on top of the video
preview layer as core animation layers.
And he also uses the CI face
detector when taking a still image
down the CI face detector path,
and then uses the result to composite
using CG and then using image IO to write
the JPEG and record it to assets library.
So all that code is still in there.
This is a great sample because it
shows you both ways to use faces.
It also has the real time path,
and the programming model
is a little bit different.
It's the same at the top.
We still have a still image
output and a video preview layer,
but then in the middle,
there's this new kind of output
called an AVCapture metadata output.
Notice it's not a face-specific one.
It's for metadata in general.
And the metadata output
outputs an array of metadata,
or in this case, an array of faces,
which he can then use to draw
the mustache layers as before.
And he can use that same AV metadata
output to pair with a still image and use
CG as before to composite the mustaches.
Let's talk more about this
AVCapture metadata output.
Previously,
AVCapture device input would only
expose a single kind of input port.
It would say, "I have video available.
That's the only kind of
data I can produce." Now,
on supported platforms,
that device input will say,
"I support both video and metadata."
So that input port can be hooked
up to things that consume metadata.
And we're in luck.
We have a new AVCapture output
subclass that does consume metadata
called the AVCapture Metadata Output.
Now, today, there's only one kind
of metadata supported,
which is faces.
But you can imagine that in the future,
we might add other kinds of metadata
that can be had through this output.
If you've used video data output,
you'll be right at home.
It's patterned after that one.
So instead of outputting
a sample buffer at a time,
it outputs an NSArray of AV metadata
objects to your delegate on a
serial queue that you have defined.
And it also allows discovery of a bunch
of available metadata object types.
That means if in the future we add
foo discovery and face discovery,
you can know what kinds
of metadata objects are
available through this output,
and you can filter to the
subset of objects that you want.
So if you only want faces
and you don't want foos,
you can specify to the metadata
output that you want to set
the types to just faces.
I'd recommend future-proofing your code
now if all you want is faces to do that.
Now,
what's in this face object that you get?
In the capture output did output
metadata objects callback,
you'll get an array of objects,
and they all have a time stamp,
a rectangle, an ID, a roll angle,
just as I was talking about before.
That's where you can do
interesting things with your faces.
So let's talk about the
definition for what a face is.
First of all,
what's the rectangle of a face?
The bounds extend from just above
the eyebrows to just below the lips.
So it's not actually the whole
face with the forehead and all.
It's about what you see here.
Also, the CG rect coordinates are
scalar values from zero to one,
as I said before.
It's in the--origin is top left,
and it's in the unrotated
camera devices orientation.
And CI Face Detector and the
metadata output rectangles are
comparable in size and origin.
That's good.
So if you are going back and forth
between using one detector and the other,
you can use them with confidence
knowing that the rectangles they
find and the faces that they find
are going to be roughly the same.
There's also still image support
when using face detection.
So if you have a metadata
output and it's enabled,
and you have an AVCapture
still image output,
then when you take images,
we will attach the face
information to those still images.
And if you then write those still
images using our JPEG still image
NSData representation-- that's
a mouthful-- to turn it from a
sample buffer into an NSData,
we'll preserve those face rectangles
and IDs in the metadata as XMP.
Where is it supported?
As I said before,
it's only on the newer devices,
so iPhone 4S, iPad 2,
and the new iPad all support
real-time face detection.
Great.
On to our third main feature set,
which is AVCapture Video Preview
Layer Enhancements.
First, conversion methods.
Boy, people whine about this a
lot on the developer forums.
So we're finally giving in,
and we're giving you what you asked for.
This is a bug that I had,
and I love the title of it,
so I just included it here.
Setting focus and exposure points
of interest is ridiculously hard.
We tend to agree the developer's
point was well taken.
It seems like a totally arbitrary space,
regardless of device orientation.
The API is really hard to use.
So we do have a piece of sample code that
shows how to do it for one orientation,
but it doesn't apply to all orientations,
and it's a little bit fiddly.
Let's start with a review of how these
AVCapture device points of interest work.
A focus point of interest,
this would be if you want to do
like a tap interface for focusing.
The point is from zero to one with zero,
zero in the top left and one,
one in the bottom right.
and the camera sensor's native or
unrotated orientation is landscape.
For the back camera,
its native orientation
is landscape right,
that is,
with the home button on the right.
And for the front camera,
the native orientation is landscape left,
that is,
with the home button on the left.
So let's say you have a phone
rotated in portrait and you're
taking a picture of a little girl.
What the camera sees
is what you see here.
It's actually a landscape right
orientation with zero in the top
left and one in the bottom right.
So what makes translating
these coordinates so hard?
There's a lot of math involved.
Preview may be rotated.
[Transcript missing]
So you can imagine it's pretty
hard then to figure out if someone
taps on your video preview layer,
how does that turn into an unrotated,
unmirrored source.
Conversion methods to the rescue.
We've taken all of the trouble out of it
by adding these new conversion methods.
And here's what it looks like.
Let's say you have a tap point
from a gesture recognizer.
You just call preview layer capture
device point of interest for point,
and it will give you the converted point.
[Transcript missing]
on an AVCapture output object
transformed metadata object
for metadata object connection.
All right.
Second video preview layer
enhancement is support for pausing
and resuming the video preview
layer without stopping the session.
Many of you want to pause rendering
on the preview layer because
you've taken a still image,
you want to do some processing,
you don't want to waste
cycles previewing,
or you want to just match the
still image that you just took.
You can do that now because
AVCapture Video Preview Layer exposes
an AVCapture connection.
Let you in on a secret.
It always had a capture connection.
We just didn't expose it.
So now that it's public,
you can use all of the properties
that you would normally use
in an AVCapture connection,
but with respect to a preview
layer instead of an output.
So to pause video preview,
all you do is find its
connection and call setEnabled
"no." And while you do that,
rendering is paused on the preview.
It shows you a frozen frame.
And then when you setEnabled "yes,"
it goes back to its regular rendering,
and it does not cause any glitch
in any other outputs or lose
your focus or exposure points.
Because we now have a
first-class connection on the
AVCapture video preview layer,
it means we have some redundant
API in video preview layer,
and we've taken this
opportunity to deprecate them.
You can see AVCaptureVideoPreviewLayer.h
for the ones that you
should convert over to.
Here's a list.
The deprecated ones are calls
that you would make on the layer.
Now you do the same thing,
except you get the
layer's connection first,
and then set the same properties
on the layer's connection.
We have three miscellaneous APIs that
didn't fit into any of the big buckets
that I was talking about earlier,
so I just thought I'd throw
them all on one slide and
tell you about them quickly.
AVCaptureDevice's TorchActive property.
This lets you know whether
or not the torch can be used.
As you know,
using the torch can make your device hot,
and if it gets too hot,
the torch has to shut down
and can't be used until the
unit cools off sufficiently.
You can now use the TorchActive
property to know about the
current availability of the torch,
whether it--and it's
key value observable,
so it will change when
the torch is now active.
You can also set the torch
mode to something other
than fully on or fully off.
Some of you out here are
writing flashlight apps.
I just know you are.
If you are, you might want to set the
torch mode to something like
halfway between full and zero.
Or perhaps you might want to use it to
do interesting effects with your video.
You can now set the torch level to
things other than top or bottom.
Also,
AVCapture still image output has a nice
new feature when recording JPEG images.
Previously,
you had no control over the quality of
the JPEG compression that was applied.
It would always give
you 85 percent quality.
We determined that that was the
right amount of compression to use.
But now you can use the AVVideoQuality
key with the still image output and
specify anything from zero to one,
zero being zero quality and
one being 100 percent quality.
All right, on to our next big topic area,
which is solutions for performance
problems in your Capture app.
We're going to talk about a couple
common problems that we see over
and over on the developer forums.
First of which is,
my app is dropping frames
during video capture.
And usually the second question is,
is it my fault?
And we all know the answer to that.
The answer is, yes,
of course it's your fault.
It's never Apple's fault.
What can I do to recover?
That's the more important question is,
once I see it happening,
what can I do about it?
We're going to talk about that.
Also,
for those of you who use AssetWriter,
you may have noticed that
you have dropped frames at
the beginning of your movie,
and we'll talk about
how to mitigate that.
Also, you may have noticed that you
have some garbage-looking frames
in your AV AssetWriter-recorded
movies if you use GL for rendering.
We'll talk about how to get around that.
And many of you have a do-it-yourself
kind of preview where you get video data,
you manipulate it,
and then you need to draw
your own preview somehow,
and it's slow.
What do you do about it?
Okay, we're going to talk about
all those four things.
First of all, handling frame drops.
Always, always,
always set AVCapture video data outputs,
always discards late video frames to yes.
There is one tiny exception,
and that is if you are recording
and you are super likely to
always be faster than real time.
Because when you set always
discards late video frames to yes,
what it tells the video data output to
do is to size its buffer queue to one at
the end of the video processing pipeline.
So that means if you don't pull a
frame on time because you were late,
it will never get further
behind than the current frame.
It will throw out the current frame,
append the new one.
So in effect,
it's always giving you the latest.
And it keeps you from building up latency
if you have a process that's taking too
much time and it's doing so chronically.
So it saves you from
periodically slow processing.
If you just have a momentary glitch,
you're still going to get all the frames.
It's just that when you had the glitch,
you might miss a few.
What it does not save you from
is chronically slow processing.
If you're always slower than real time,
you're still going to drop a ton
of frames and you're still going
to have a bad user experience.
Also,
we've provided a way in iOS 6 to help
you debug your dropped capture frames,
and that is we've given you
a new delegate method in your
video data output that's just
like the didOutputSampleBuffer,
except it's didDropSampleBuffer.
So you can know when you're
dropping sample buffers.
and why might that be helpful?
Well, the sample buffer that you dropped,
it contains no image data.
You were late.
The image data is no longer there.
It's been recycled.
You can't see it anymore.
But the sample buffer does
contain timing information,
format description, and most importantly,
it contains some attachments
that you'll want to look at,
like the dropped frame reason.
So that will tell you why
you're dropping frames.
If it says the dropped
reason was frame was late,
it's because you are using the
always discards late video frames,
but you're still late.
So that means it had a cue size of one.
It had to pull one out
to put a new one in.
That means you're operating
slower than real time.
The out-of-buffers one,
that happens if you've been so late
so many times and you're not using
the discards late video frames.
So let's say you're in
a recording scenario,
but you've dropped so many frames
now that the capture device
has no more left to give you.
And it just can't produce
anymore until you give some back.
Out-of-buffers means you're way behind.
And then a discontinuity means
something unexpected happened,
the capture device had to reset itself,
maybe something crashed,
but it just means that you're going to
have a--some number of frames were lost,
and that the next video frame that comes
in will have a much later timestamp
than the one that you are currently on,
more than one frame.
So how can you mitigate these?
Well, having this tool at your disposal,
knowing when you're
dropping frames is huge.
You can know when it's
happening and take action.
The action that you take might be
that while you're developing your app,
you pay attention to this and figure
out the devices on which you're
dropping frames so that when you ship,
you've already tuned those devices
to know what frame rate to use.
But you can also use it as
a stop gap if in the field,
like in real time, you find that you're
still dropping frames.
One way to mitigate them is by
lowering the frame rate dynamically.
You may not be aware that as of iOS 5,
you can lower the frame rate
dynamically on the video data
output without stopping the session.
and it will gradually and
neatly throttle down to the
new frame rate that you've set.
So by lowering the min
and max frame rate,
it means you don't have to drop a
pile of frames to catch back up.
You can let it do it gradually,
maybe over a second,
and get up to a reasonable quality
of service where you can keep up.
The way that you set min and
max frame rate is by setting
the video min frame duration.
Duration is one over frame rate.
So you set the min frame duration
to set a new max frame rate,
and you set the max frame duration
to set the min frame rate.
Okay, asset writer frame drops.
This one's a little bit stickier.
And I told you that
it's always your fault,
but in fact,
here it's kind of Apple's fault.
So we're fixing it.
AVCaptureMovieFileOutput is
really good at capturing movies.
Why?
Because it's optimized for
real-time file writing.
It knows what format
you're going to produce.
It pre-allocates buffers for
glitch-free movie writing,
so it can start right away
without dropping any frames.
AVAssetWriter, on the other hand,
is limited by its interface.
It does not know the source format that
you're going to be providing up front.
So when is it going to
do all of that setup,
building up its render pipelines
and compressors and such?
It can't prime that render
pipeline ahead of time.
It has to do it when you append
your first sample buffer.
Now it knows what the source format is.
It knows how it can proceed.
But that's too late,
because if you're appending
the first sample buffer,
you meant for that one
to go into the file.
So now you're going to wind
up with some frame drops at
the beginning of the movie.
So we're getting by this by
giving you a new initializer
for AV Asset Writer input.
First of all,
continue to do what you have been doing,
which is set expects media
data in real time to yes.
And now new in iOS 6,
you can use a new init method to hint
it the source format before you start.
So the existing init
method looks like this,
Asset Writer input with
media type output settings.
And the new one just
adds one more parameter,
source format hint.
So use that.
Use that if you're in the real-time
case because it lets you set up--it lets
AssetWriter set up itself ahead of time.
Now,
it doesn't mean that it's zero cost now.
You still have to pay the cost somewhere.
The costs of setup now move from
the first append sample buffer call
to when you call start writing.
So what that means is you should still
set up your asset writer off of the
video data output serial queue on which
you're getting delegate callbacks.
You don't want to do it there.
That start writing might take
hundreds of milliseconds,
which might cause frames to pile
up behind you or cause frame drops.
So set up your asset writer
off of that serial queue,
and then when you're actually
ready to start going,
you can append sample buffers
in your delegate callback.
All right,
rendering with OpenGL and writing to
AVAssetWriter can be a little sticky.
When you render to a texture
using CVOpenGL ES Texture Cache,
you have to ensure that GL has
finished rendering the buffer
before you pass it to AssetWriter.
If you don't,
you're going to wind up with
some garbage or lines in your
movie that you don't want.
So the way to do that,
the safe way to make sure
that GL has finished with the
frames is to call glFinish.
It's safe, but unfortunately,
that's going to block the CPU and
wait until the GPU is done rendering,
and you don't want that.
You don't want to block your CPU so
that the GPU can do its work.
You want both to be
busy at the same time.
There's also glFlush,
which flushes out any pending commands
to the GPU but doesn't finish them.
So here's our recommendation to
get more out of the CPU and the
GPU to get them working in parallel,
is to use what we call a delayed
glFinish or staggered glRender
to keep both of them busy.
Here's what it looks like.
In your video data output,
You'll get a frame.
Pass that frame to OpenGL to
render it and call glFlush.
It's now working on frame N.
Don't call glFinish.
Just hold on to the frame.
Now wait until you get frame N plus 1.
Now call GLFinish for the first frame.
That means you let the CPU do all
that work to get the second frame
in before you called GLFinish,
and you gave GL some more time to
work on rendering that first frame.
Now you can pass the second frame to GL,
call GL flush,
hold on to the second frame while you
pass the first frame to AssetWriter,
and then wash, rinse, repeat.
GL Flush is only necessary if
you are rendering for Asset
Writer but not presenting it.
If you do call present
render buffer for preview,
it implicitly takes care
of the GL Flush for you.
Also, that big staggered GL render that
I just took you through is only
necessary on devices before iOS 6.
iOS 6 and later,
Asset Writer takes care of this
for you so that GL is always
guaranteed to be done with the buffer
before it writes it to the movie.
You will not get any more
of those garbage frames.
Okay, how to draw my own preview fast.
This is the last performance
problem we're going to talk about.
Well,
the first way to do it and the easiest
and the most efficient is to use our own
built-in video preview layer if you can.
If all you're going to do is render
things on top of the video preview,
such as StashCam did,
where it's drawing the
mustaches on top of the video,
well, no need to be manipulating pixels.
Just use our video preview layer
and use Core Animation to composite
other images on top of it.
That's as easy as can be
and it's very efficient.
Plus, you get all of Core Animation's
rotations and animations for free.
If you are using video data output
because you need to manipulate
the pixels before previewing,
our recommendation is to use OpenGL.
We found that it is consistently the
fastest way to draw your own preview.
It's not necessarily as easy,
but we've given you some good
sample code to show you how.
There's the GL Camera Ripple sample code.
It operates in 4:2:0V.
If at all possible,
use 4:2:0V for your preview.
And if you can manipulate
your pixels in 4:2:0V,
please do.
Because it's less than half
of the data size of BGRA.
It's the native format of the camera,
and it just makes things faster
and more memory efficient.
If, however, you need to use BGRA for
output and for preview,
please review the
Rosie Writer sample code.
It shows how to do the same
things with operations in BGRA.
On to our last topic,
synchronizing motion data with video.
This is a fun one.
Okay, let's start out by having
a demo of VideoSnake.
I'd like to call up Walker Eagleston
to help me demo this.
It has a nifty icon, too.
There we go.
Okay, it's black,
so you can't see the whole screen frame.
But what's happening here is it's
using AV Foundation plus Core Motion,
the accelerometer, in this case,
to draw a video snake.
The name of this app is Video Snake.
So what you see, I'm the head.
I am the head of the snake.
And behind you -- behind me,
undulating around,
you see a motion history
of where I've been.
And we're using Core Motion for
the accelerometer only here.
So as Walker translates the iPad around,
so moves it left, right, top,
up and down, you'll see the tail of
the snake undulate around.
There's also a second
effect built into this app,
which is more of a collage effect.
So he's demoing that to you now.
This is sort of a poor man's pano,
I guess.
As he rolls around,
this takes into account not
only translation but rotation.
So as he kind of moves the iPad
up and down and rotates it around,
it will keep track of where
I am and draw the history around
me in more of a 3-D space.
And so what's neat about this is that
it knows the camera's field of view by
using the sample buffer attachment's
focal length in 35-millimeter film.
And that lets him guess how much --
when to stop to snap a new picture.
So every 10 degrees or so,
he's snapping a new picture
and using GL to render it.
And what you wind up with is
this cool kind of collage effect.
None of it works, though,
if we can't correlate those video
timestamps to the timestamps that
we're getting from Core Motion.
Thank you, Walker.
All right, so how did we do that?
You couldn't see it because
how would you see audio?
But there was a big record
button at the bottom,
which we were tempted to press,
but we didn't because recording is cool,
but it's better seen in
code than demoed on stage.
VideoSnake is doing both video and audio.
So at the top of his AVCapture session,
he has both a video
device and a microphone.
He has a video data output
and an audio data output.
And he's
And to correlate the
timestamps with core motion,
he's taking the video frames that
he gets and he's undoing AV Sync.
We'll talk about that in a minute.
That's wrong.
He's not passing to a CI face detector.
That should say passing to core motion.
And then passing the core motion
and getting the timestamps,
it's then rendering with OpenGL.
And the rendered frames,
that is the composited snake,
is now previewed using GL.
And the results are brought back into
main memory where they can be written
to AssetWriter and correlated with the
audio that came in at the same time.
The audio and video is in sync.
This sample was not on the
developer site as of this morning,
but I think it will be
there this afternoon.
All right, so how do you synchronize
motion data with video?
The problem is we've got
three input sources now.
We've got the gyro core motion,
we've got a video device,
we've got an audio device.
That means potentially three clocks.
And you know the old saying,
"The man with two clocks never
knows what time it is." Well,
we really don't know what
time it is because we've got
three clocks to deal with.
But we're lucky because, in fact,
there are only two clocks to deal with,
because both the video camera and
core motion use the same clock.
It's the host time clock.
So now we only have to worry about the
audio being on a different clock and
thus a slightly different timeline.
To synchronize motion data with video,
first you have to know
about the motion samples.
The Core Motion samples
contain a timestamp.
You can get at them by using
CMDeviceMotion timestamp,
and that'll give you an NSTime interval.
It's timestamped using the
Mach absolute time of the motion,
so the exact time that the
accelerometer event happened
or the gyro event happened,
that's what you're getting when
you ask it for the timestamp.
And Core Motion does use the host
time clock to do its timestamping.
When you do tricks like this where you're
using motion and you're using video,
you'll typically want more motion samples
than you have video samples so that you
can compare motion that was happening
around the time of the video frame.
Because typically people can
move around faster than the
video can spit out frames.
So we recommend at least a sampling rate
of 2x your video frame rate if you're
going to do effects with Core Motion.
Now, on to the video timestamps.
How do you get those?
Each sample buffer of video that you
get has a timestamp that you can get
using CMSampleBufferGetPresentationTime,
and that is the Mach absolute
time of the frame.
Front and back camera on iOS
both use the Mach absolute
time or the host time clock.
For the audio, though,
it doesn't just contain
one frame of audio.
It contains N frames of audio.
And the time stamp there is the time
of the first frame in the buffer.
And, again, it's on a different clock.
But it's the time that it
came into the microphone.
The audio capture device
uses the audio clock.
And to do AV sync, then,
we have to pick one or the other
because otherwise they would drift
apart and you would have movie
recordings that were out of sync.
So because they might drift,
we have to pick one.
Well, we picked the audio clock
because the audio clock,
it's easier to sync video
to audio than vice versa.
So audio becomes the master.
That means that the video stamps that
you get on the video sample buffers when
you are also capturing audio are altered.
They're on the audio timeline,
not on the video timeline.
That's no good if you want to
correlate them with motion,
which is on the host time clock.
So the way you undo AV sync is
by getting a reference to the
audio clock and the video clock,
as seen here.
And then taking your presentation
time from the video buffer,
which, again, is on the audio timeline,
and call CM sync convert time,
which converts from the audio timeline
to the video clock's timeline.
So now you're back on
the core motion timeline.
You can now do your correlating of times.
So in summary,
what did we talk about today?
We talked about OS X features,
mostly performance.
We were really centered on getting
the performance better in OS X.8.
8.
We also talked about camera
ecosystem as a whole.
Be sensitive to our users' private data.
Don't violate their trust.
We also spent a lot of time talking
about iOS 6 capture features,
solving performance problems, and lastly,
we talked about correlating
motion data with video.
Hope you've enjoyed our session today.
For more information,
please talk to Eric Verschen,
our evangelist.
Thanks again,
and enjoy the rest of the show.